in japan's singoka period takita shinjin
dami of the taquita clan meets with his
brother nobukado
and an unnamed thief whom the latter met
by chance and spared from crucifixion
due to the thief's uncanny resemblance
to shinjin
the brothers then agree that he would
prove useful as a double and they decide
to use the thief as a cage musha
a political decoy later shinjin's army
has besieged a castle of tokugawa i iso
one evening when shinjin visits the
battlefield he is shot by a sniper who
has mapped shinjin's previous movements
in the camp
mortally wounded he orders a withdrawal
and commands his generals to keep his
death a secret for three years
shinjin soon dies with only a small
group of witnesses
meanwhile shinjin's rivals oda nobunaga
tokugawa iso and yusuji kenshin each
contemplate the consequences of
shinjin's withdrawal of his army still
not knowing of his death
nobukito presents the thief to shinjin's
generals proposing to have this
cagemusha impersonate shinjin full-time
at first even the thief is unaware of
shinjin's death
until he tries to break into a huge jar
believing it to contain treasure
and instead finds shinjin's preserved
corpse
the generals then decide they cannot
trust the thief and set him free
later the takita leaders secretly
dropped the jar with shinjin's corpse
into lake suwa
spies working for tokugawa and his ally
oda witness the disposal of the jar
and suspecting that shinjin has died go
to report the death
the thief however overhearing the spies
goes to offer his services
hoping to be of some use to shinjin in
death
the takita clan preserves the deception
by announcing that they were making an
offering of sake to the god of the lake
the spies follow the takita army as they
march home from the siege
although they suspect that shinjin has
died they are later convinced by the
cage mush's performance
returning home the cage musha
successfully fools shinjin's retinue
by imitating shinjin's gestures and
learning more about him
the cage musha begins to uncannily mimic
the persona of shinjin
and even convinces takita katsuyara's
son and shinjin's grandson
who was very close with shinjin when the
cage musha must preside over a clan
council to plan how to respond to
provocative attacks made by tokugawa
against taquito border castles
he is instructed by nobukito to not
speak until nobukido brings the generals
to a consensus
where upon the cage musha will simply
agree with the general's plan and
dismiss the council
however katsuyori is incensed by his
father's decree of the three-year
subterfuge which delays his inheritance
and leadership of the clan
katsuyori thus decides to test the cage
musha in front of the council
as the majority of the attendants are
not aware that shinjin is dead
katsuyori directly asks the cage musha
what course of action the lord thinks
should be taken
after a long pause the cage musher
replies a mountain does not move
convincingly in shenzhen's own manner
the cage mush's effective
improvisation further impresses the
generals
soon in 1573
oda nobunaga is mobilizing his forces to
attack azinagamasa
continuing his campaign in central
honshu to maintain his control of kyoto
against the growing opposition
when the tokugawa and oda clans launch
an attack on takita territory
katsuyori begins a counter-offensive
against the advice of other generals
the cage musha is forced to lead
reinforcements to the 1574 battle of
takatenjin
and helps inspire the troops to victory
in a fit of overconfidence
the cage musha attempts to ride
shinjin's spirited horse
when he falls off those who rush to help
him see that he does not have their
lord's battle scars
and he is revealed as an impostor the
thief is driven out of the palace in
disgrace
and katsuyori takes over the clan oda
and tokugawa
sensing weakness in the takita clan
leadership are emboldened to begin a
full-scale offensive into the takita
homeland
now in full control of the takita army
katsuyori leads the counter-offensive
against nobunaga
resulting in the battle of nagashino
although courageous in their assault
wave after wave of attacking takita
cavalry and infantry are cut down by
volleys of tanigashima fire from oda
troops deployed behind wooden stockades
effectively eliminating the takita army
the exiled
cage musha who has followed the takita
army is dismayed and in a final show of
loyalty
he takes up a spear and makes a hopeless
charge against the oda lines
mortally wounded the cage musha attempts
feudally to retrieve the frankazon
banner
which had fallen into a river but
succumbs to his wounds in the water
his body floats past it as the film
concludes with a long shot of the
abandoned frinkazon